Hello everyone.  I'm a teacher.  Kosu-sensei also
does things like this on a regular basis, so if you're interested, please
check it out.  Today's the day
, everyone! It's Notebook M!
Notebook M now has a short video
creation function, and while it's still a bit
quirky and requires certain steps to
use, it's really
fun.  This is
incredibly fun, so I really hope you all will give it a try
.  So, let's
begin with the Notebook Elem short video series
.   So
, there may be some people who are seeing my videos for the first time
.  So, I've
mentioned "notebookelem," and some of you might be wondering
what "notebookelem" is
.  So, to begin with, I'd like to briefly explain what
Notebook Elem is
.  First of all
, NoteElem was developed by Google
.  And in that context, we have a
beast of potential created by Google that allows you to create your own AI assistant with simple operations.  To give you an idea of ​​how easy it is
, please take a look here.
This is a Google
account.  So,
this button in your Google account, the so-
called waffle button
, you'll find "Notebook
Elem [Music]" there.  In my case, it's in the top right corner,
but there might be others whoses is somewhere around here
.  For things you use often
, it's
really important to just push them all the way up
.  Just put it up here like this, and that's it
.  So, if you press this note element
[music], you can
think of the Notebook service as originally being empty.  First, we'll
create something called a "Create New Notebook."  Then they'll ask, "Where do you
get your information from?"
This is what is known as an empty state
.  Then, you can upload the source material that you want to use as a basis, such as
wanting to get answers about it,
wanting to extract information about it, or
wanting to create some kind of content [music] about it
.  Then, you
can chat with it, and as I'll show you later,
from the studio on the right,
you can create things like slides, mind maps, summary documents,
infographics, and
various other things.
I would describe it as a beast of possibilities
.   And of course
, it can also be used for business purposes
.  For example, in terms of business applications
, I
think it would be a good idea to use it as a chatbot in the car.  We'll put
various documents from within the company or town into it, and then make
them publicly available.
And by doing that, you can tell me not to call you anymore
, just look at this manual
.  You should consult this manual
.  I
think there are many companies that operate under the assumption that they can just ask their notebooks and get the answers they need.  But if
that's possible, then it means that digital transformation in real homes is also
feasible.  I highly
recommend this because you know how there are instruction manuals for all sorts of appliances and things like that in your house?
Please write down all of those.  Then, I
put it into NotebookElem.  Then there's
NoteElem, and of course
NoteElem also has a smartphone app.  Then, you
open a notebook on your smartphone app that contains various things like home appliances and so on
.  For example, if your washing machine sometimes
displays "PP" or if your
microwave shows an error code, you
enter that code here.  My microwave is working like this,
what should I do? Then you
don't even need to read the instruction manual anymore,
Notebook Elem will answer all your questions.
I really love Notebook Elem because it can also handle IDX in a home setting
.  I
really love the Demini too, but the
excitement I get from the Notebook Elem is incredible
.  So, regarding that
Notebook Elem, I'm sorry to ask what has arrived this time
.  I'm in a really good mood this time
, and it's quite fun.  So, what's new, you
ask? Well, it's a short video feature
, specifically a short video summary
.  The idea is to transform the most complex source
into a 60-second vertical video that delves into it using a specific concept, and
this is actually what the posted
article is about.  This is something that was
posted on July 1st, and I happened to see it while I was
working on something related to Geroshi
.   I
thought, "Wow, another bad one's come along," and I was kind of
watching it while soaking in the hot springs
.  I thought, "This is exciting!" and it just reminded me of that feeling
.  And this is currently being
rolled out to Google AI Ultra and Pro subscribers on mobile and web for [music].  As of July 1st, it said that free users would be available soon, but it's
now July 8th.  Free users can
access it.  So, it's now available for everyone to
use equally, so I'd really appreciate it if you would give it a try
.   Well, regarding
[music], there is only
one condition for using it.  What I'm talking about is
this.  You need to change your account's language setting
to English.  Currently, this feature is not
available if your account's language setting is Japanese.   It won't appear
.  All you have to do is change your account language setting
to English, and you can now use [music]
.  So, how do you change your account language
setting to English? Let's do it
together.  I
believe this is the same screen I showed you earlier.  So
, earlier we opened Notebook Elem from here and added
music
, but if you want to change the language settings, please click on this
icon, the account icon, and
then you'll see "
Manage your Google account
."  Then, please click here
, and you will see options like
Home, Personal Information, Security Login, and
Bonyaponyaponya.
Click on Personal Information.  If you click on "Personal Information," you'll find it under "
Language," which is the
seventh option from the top.  Okay, so please select
this language and then [music]
, and then maybe it won't be available
.  Perhaps
everyone is in this situation.  It might seem like
Japanese is the only preferred language and there are no other languages ​​listed
, but in that case, you can
add another language by going to "Add another language" and selecting something like "English" here
.  Regarding which English hotel you're looking for
, well, United
Stays is at the top, so please select that and
save it.  So, now the preferred language is
Japanese, but
English has been added to the list of other languages.  Then, if you
press the up arrow [music] next to "English" in the language settings, it will appear like this, and your
preferred language will be set
to English.  That's
okay.  Let's compare them then
.
This is the screen of the Notebook Element when the language is set to Japanese.  So
, when you click the video explanation button, you can
only choose between [music], an explanatory video, and an overview
.  Okay, so I'd like you to change the language
setting to English and then reload the notes LM
.  Then,
within this video overview, you'll see
something called "Short
."  This is a feature that allows you to create short videos,
so please select this option. Then, you will see "
what
should be the video fetch on," which is a
feature that first recommends a video based on the source you have entered.   You
can also leave comments suggesting ways to create short videos
, or you can try writing your own custom topics
.  So, if you generate from here, you can
create a short video of about 1 minute and 10 seconds
.  And here's a
tip, this is just a side note, but there's a cinematic
mode that's currently only available to the winning account
.  Originally, only those living in the US with
Google AI Pro or Google
AI Ultra subscriptions could
create these cinematic videos,
but somehow, at some point
, cinematic videos, along
with these short videos, are now included in the Pro and Ultra
versions.  I'd like you to take a look here
, but what I'm showing you now is
my free account.
Then let's take a look at the paid account next time
.  This is my paid account
.  I have a paid account and the language setting is set to English
.  In that case, if you
look at the video overview, you'll see something called "Cinematic" next to "Short" and "X-Planer
."  This is the person I mentioned earlier who originally
lived in the US and had Google AI Pro and
Google AI Ultra
, but now I live in Japan. However, if you change the
language setting to English, the cinematic will appear
.  And now,
this is your workspace account.
So, if you take a look at the video overview in your workspace account, you'll see that "
Cinematic" option is now available. This means that options that weren't available
before are now
available with this upgrade. That's all for now.  Okay, then let's take a
look at a short video
.  What happens when you use it normally? It's
strange to say "when you use it normally," but if you
select a short video and
click on the suggested music
, it looks like this.
Workspacecore
service rescues it
from being banned by
strict IT
departments. Takea
developer trying to roll out an automated
Gmail transcript to the entire sales team.
Previously, this transcript was entirely outside the company's security perimeter because it lacked official status, making it invisible. If
data leaked, the company could
create short videos like this
.  That's pretty good, isn't it?  This might sound
rude, but the
video tutorials for Notebook Eleb up until now have been like
slides, but with a slide effect, and the
audio just plays.  I don't think it was that interesting
.  But these kinds of
short videos have movement and clever mechanisms to really draw you in, don't they?  I
thought this short video was great,
but the
content and the way it's spoken are all in English, so I was a bit hesitant
.  And that's when I thought...  I think it was probably around this time last year
.   A
video tutorial for Notebook M has been
released.  I was saying that it was a shame it was in English, and then the
people who watch my YouTube videos are incredibly dedicated to their research and left comments.  When I asked it to output in Japanese, it output in Japanese.  I thought, "Wow, this could work with short hair too!"  So, I tried it.  So, how did I do it? I translated the text within the content into Japanese.  I also made a clear instruction to make the audio in Japanese.  Let's hear about it.
[Music]
When I open an in-car app using Google Apps Script, why is there no screen?
[Music] See? It
works.  And look, it clearly says "Welcome to the portal."  Isn't that amazing?  I did it.  But actually, I deliberately stopped it here, and then I was like, "Huh?"  Let's take a look.
[Music] Do you
know if we can recognize you? Normally, it's a hassle to display personal data in external apps every time, you know
? I'm speaking in deep space right now.  This is the content section, specifically the illustration on the back.
This place, for example, seems to be
created using image generation software, like Nanobana or something similar.  However, it's
this text overlay part that's the problem.  This is probably
made up of text objects.   So
, as a result, they tried to create it in Japanese, but
since the font doesn't have Japanese characters, it ended up looking like this, the so-called "tofu" character
.  I
suspect it has turned into tofu.  So, what I need to do from now on is to
specify things like, "Please keep the text in the on-screen text in English," or "Please use the Notosans JP font for the on-screen text," and I
think that might allow the on-screen text to be in Japanese as well.  At least the
audio is in Japanese right now
, and the images in this content are also in Japanese, right?  Let's take a look
a little further ahead
.  Authentication is required.
For example, let's say we create an in-house quota where all employees access the same URL to
view their individual schedules
.  Even if you
embed a calendar using Google Sites' standard features, it will
only display the planned creations
.  [Music] If you try to
solve this by building an external system, you'll
run into the obstacle of having to stop loading and requesting user login.  See? It's
super easy to understand, right? Oh,
this is just me putting a video I made when I announced that Gas has
become a core service of Google Wordwork Space
into Notebook Element and turning it
into a short video
.  So, as I mentioned earlier,
this is the result of my request to have the text in the content section in Japanese and the audio in Japanese.  It turned out to be an incredibly easy-to-understand
short video, didn't it?
So, all that's left is this on-screen text section.  If we can just figure out
how to circumvent this part
, we'll be able to create content in Japanese, even though currently it can only be used if the language setting is set to English. I
think we're almost there.  So, once I've done this, there's actually something I'd like to do.
Right now, on
this channel, I'm streaming music to everyone on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays
.  For example
, we could take something that was released on Monday and turn it
into a short video to release on Tuesday [music], or
even make it into a short video with absolutely no editing
, and then release something from Wednesday on Thursday, like a
digest version
[music]. I
think that would be interesting, or rather, it would simply be a way for
everyone to see how great Notebook M's short videos are
.
So, I'm thinking it might be a good idea to let everyone evaluate whether it has value or not, so please look
forward to it in the future.  I'd like to upload a short
video someday, exactly as I made it using Notebook Elem
.  I think we need to resolve this caption issue by then,
so we have to
work a little harder on this.  I'm
thinking about how to do it.  Ah,
however, since we can't make multiple bottles of this in a single day
, the difficulty lies in the fact that we can only test it a few times.
But
please, everyone, give it a try.
As I mentioned earlier, you can use it now regardless of whether you have the free version or the championship version
.  The only thing you need to do is change the
language setting to English
.  That's all.  If you do this, you can make it
.  It can also create Japanese text.  I would definitely like everyone to
try it out.  At our company
, we see that services like Gemi and Note
LM, and the entire Google service, are constantly
evolving in this way.  And,
since Google is an American company, the launch of its services is
much faster in the United States, right?
If you do that, short videos like these will also
appear in English by default, as shown here, with the language setting set to English
.  So, we're
researching how to create it in Japanese, and when we're able to do
that, we'll distribute it to everyone to
help support their digital transformation
.  If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us via the inquiry page in the description box
.   In
this channel, I also got to talk about my favorite
notebooks
, but Google really
has so many services, and they're all so much
fun.  My aim is to pick at least one of those things and
share the information with everyone
.
Please subscribe to the channel!
thank you very much.  see you.   As is
typical for solo casual talks, I'd like to
hold another solo casual talk today
.  Today, I have another outrageous request,
so I will read it.  I
searched for the best recent comment, as requested.  I didn't exactly "search" for it; actually, it was just a genuinely
nice comment.   I would like to make an
announcement.  The
comment that MMKKK998 sent is insane.   I ended up
playing Tetris for 10 minutes.  It makes sounds
, and you
can even change its orientation at the last moment to fit it into gaps, making it truly
enjoyable.  So, what was this video about again
? I'm going to rewatch it from the beginning
, and I can
tell from the comments that you're probably really excited.
Indeed, in this device preview video, there's a video
I made in the past, which at the time was
called the 3Pro
.  I made a Tetris game using that software and
released it online, and someone played it for 10 minutes
.  What came to mind was
, actually, Tetris, you see
, and all of my acquaintances' families play it
.  From there, we received various requests
.  We kept asking for improvements and changes, and that's how
Tetris
evolved so much.  So, right now there's
Normal Mode,
Infinite Mode, and
Maniac Mode
, and when we make improvements or anything like that, I feel like I have to
play and test it myself,
so I was really happy that you played it for 10 minutes
.  I was incredibly happy to receive that comment
.  So, I encourage you all to take
this opportunity to try out the Tetris game I created
.  So, from time
to time, I'd like to read your comments
, share my thoughts, and perhaps talk about something completely
unrelated
.  So, everyone, we're looking forward to your
comments
, and we'll definitely reply to them
, so please
feel free to leave a comment.  Thank you so much for everything
.